# Virtual Closet Vision Statement
Virtual Closet is an app that allows people to view and organize the clothes and outfits in their closet from their mobile device. The app will organize the user’s clothing and outfits by categories such as style, colour, and seasonal trends. The app allows users to create outfits based on clothes in their virtual closet, and helps them design their outfits with recommendations and suggestions about complementary colours. 
 
The system is primarily designed for the average person who wants a tool to improve the organization of their closet. The people who will use this system are those who want to spend less time in the morning getting dressed, and would use this system to more efficiently choose their outfits. Users of the system will also be able to use the app to improve their style, regardless of whether or not they have previous fashion experience. 
 
In addition to average people, people who have a strong sense of style can still use this app to enhance their experience. Those people with a large collection of clothes, can utilize this system to help manage their large closets by categorizing their clothes as outfits or by creating custom labels to sort their collection. Virtual Closet will be simple enough so average users can understand it, while also including robust tools to manage large wardrobes. 
 
The value of this project is in its function as an organizational tool, allowing people to see all of the clothes they own, without manually digging through their clothes. Virtual Closet will provide our users with the experience of having a walk-in closet, without requiring them to own an expensive home with one included. It provides an experience that was previously only available to the wealthy, and puts into the hands of everyone. The system is also valuable because everyone wears clothes meaning our system is applicable to all people, but not everyone has proper organization for their wardrobe, so our system solves that problem as well. Furthermore, this is a useful application because there aren’t very many similar apps meaning we provide a unique service to our users. 
 
The system is currently being designed as a mobile application, so people will be able to create, manage, or view their virtual closet, from anywhere they go. 
 
The project will be considered successful based on two criteria. First, we will measure user activity on the app over a prolonged period of time. If our users develop a habit of using our app, that must mean we’ve provided a useful service. However, if they only try the app a few times, that must mean they prefer using existing solutions to our app. This usage statistic will help us understand the usefulness of the app to the average user. The second criteria we will measure is how robust our organizational tools are, based on surveys provided to our users. Because more dedicated users are the ones most likely to respond to surveys, this metric will show us how our expert users responded to our app. 


